Israel is pressing ahead with
a major military offensive
in Gaza City,
as Hamas warns
the attacks could send cease fire efforts
back to square one.
Israeli forces report
close quarters combat
with Hamas fighters
saying they are destroying
terrorists infrastructure.
Hundreds of thousands of people,
meantime, are fleeing their homes
once again
under yet new evacuation orders.
Gaza's civil
defense says
bodies are trapped under buildings
and lying in the streets,
but it's just too dangerous
for crews to try and retrieve them.
The Palestinian Red Crescent
says all of its medical clinics in Gaza
and Gaza City are now out of service.
You want to go
to our Jeremy Diamond
now for more is live for us in Jerusalem.
You know what a nightmare
repeating itself here again.
I mean, evacuations ordered.
And again, it's a familiar horror, right?
Where the heck do these people go?
What more are you learning about exactly?
The Israeli operation that is underway
and what it means for civilians.
Well, you're right, Paula.
Tens of thousands of Palestinians
are once again on the move.
We have seen over the course
of just the last week,
evacuation orders
for parts of Khan Younis
and then in northern Gaza,
several evacuation orders
in different neighborhoods of Gaza City.
And that is where the Israeli military
has been concentrating
its military operations
over the last 48 hours
or so inside Gaza City
neighborhoods, where the Israeli military
says, that, Hamas has returned to areas
that the Israeli military
had previously cleared.
and that is what we are continuing
to see in Gaza, absent
a long term strategy
for the governance,
an alternative
to Hamas's governance in Gaza,
the Israeli military
going back into areas
that it had previously withdrawn from.
And not only is that resulting
in increased fighting, increased
artillery shelling, airstrikes,
but also,
of course, the impact to civilians,
not only those who are killed
and wounded in the fighting,
rescue workers having trouble actually
reaching the dead
and the wounded
as a result of the heavy fighting.
And then, of course,
as we were talking about
the tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands,
in some cases of people who are, moving
to areas of central Gaza, to that
almost the coastal area
where they are simply finding that
there are not enough resources
for the number of people
who are currently displaced in Gaza,
even things like tents, are,
running in short supply
in Gaza at the moment.
And for now, the only salve
that they could potentially get is
if indeed
there is a cease fire agreement.
We are seeing those negotiations
continuing this week in Cairo
as well as in Doha, Qatar.
But for now, no deal as of yet.
You know,
the other aspect you
that you've been following
closely has been whether or not
this will also be a conflict
on another front,
Israel's northern border.
What did you learn by visiting?
Well, late last,
last week we traveled to Shula,
which is just a few hundred feet
away from the Lebanese border,
to get a sense of just
how tense things are there
and to see some of the destruction
wrought by Hezbollah's
anti-tank missiles.
They're going to see us right
when we get up there.
And we have three minutes.
Colonel Jordan Hertzberg
is talking about Hezbollah.
After three minutes, though,
they can start the fire.
So a very quick
he's taking us to an Israeli community
on the front lines of Israel's
simmering conflict
with the Lebanese
militant group up
a winding mountain road,
past a roadblock in a security fence
and into the village of Shula,
which sits right on the Lebanese border.
We've just entered the village of Shula.
This is,
a community of about 300 people normally,
but right now it's
just an absolute ghost town.
Let's go quick.
The three minute countdown starts
as soon as we are
within line of sight of southern Lebanon.
Look how close you are to the border here
where Hezbollah militants
armed with anti-tank missiles are closely
watching the border
prepare to fire once again.
This house was hit by a high tech
missile right here,
past the window.
Two homes,
one next to the other,
hit in the same attack.
According to the Israeli military,
this is one of the most dangerous places
in northern Israel.
Right now, we're in Shula,
and you can see the Lebanese border
just right across there, across
from those concrete barriers.
We're just a few hundred feet.
And what that means
is that we are within range
of those anti-tank guided missiles.
And that is exactly
what has wrought this destruction
on this civilian home.
The threat of anti-tank
missiles is part of
why Israel
wants to push Hezbollah
back to the Litani River, about 18 miles
north of the border,
outside the range of those missiles.
Okay, we have 35 seconds.
We've been here for three minutes.
The colonel has been watching his watch
the entire time that we've been here.
And now he's telling us it's time to go.
Hezbollah has been firing rockets,
missiles and drones
at northern Israel since October 8th.
Israel has responded
with air strike
after airstrike,
devastating parts of southern Lebanon,
where more than 90,000
people have fled their homes
since October.
In northern Israel,
about 60,000
Israelis have been displaced.
People like Ori Eliyahu
and his nine dogs. To this day, leader.
His grandfather was among
the first people.
Israel settled in Shula
in the late 1960s,
and after spending his summers
there as a child,
Ori decided to move there.
Meaning there
still is a special place for you.
It's my heart
to be honest.
If you could return to Shula, you would.
Of course I wouldn't.
I would have,
and the first moment
I would have been to. Yeah.
But he says that may not be the case
for families with children.
I don't think that there is a condition
that will make them come back,
because whenever they know
the tree symbolizes,
like Hamas can do
what they did in October 7th
and attack them,
they want to be with them.
And there is no real solution
because a big wall might ruin everything.
A big war is exactly
what the Israeli military
is preparing for.
Our division has been training
for this war for a long, long time.
Whether that war materializes is unclear,
but for Colonel Hertzberg,
the objective is obvious
get Israel's northern residents
back into their homes.
Whether it happens
before a major ground operation
or after ground operation.
I can't tell you I'm in the tactical open
mind of the political level
or the policy level,
but the people are going to come back
sooner than later.
And, Paula,
the situation along that border
still remains very, very tense.
And it's not clear yet
whether it will blow up into that
all out war that has been feared.
What we do know, though,
is those cease fire negotiations
happening this week in Doha, Qatar.
They could not only,
unlock a cease fire in Gaza,
but they could also potentially unlock
a broader peace in the region.
Yeah.
And as you pointed out in your report,
tens of thousands of people
on both sides of the border
want to get back to their lives.
it's obviously
an agricultural hub as well.
And we'll wait to see
if there is progress
on these cease fire talks.
Jeremy Diamond for us.
Thanks so much. Appreciate it.